Add docs to help with httpnext migration (#207)
val-town/val-town-docs: src/content/docs/troubleshooting/migrating-deprecated-http-vals.mdx

---
title: Migrating Deprecated HTTP Vals
generated: 1701279907950
lastUpdated: 2024-10-02
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

We're migrating all HTTP vals to a new runtime. Vals on the old runtime are
labeled "HTTP (deprecated)" in the UI.

For a comprehensive guide on migrating your HTTP vals, please refer to our
[Migration Checklist](#migration-checklist).

> The new runtime executes code differently, which may affect your val's behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new runtime executes code slightly differently, which will impact a very small number of vals.
```

                                  # => {"randomValue":0.48797154766298423}
                                  # => {"randomValue":0.31486102144764216}
```

Our new runtime reuses Deno processes between requests when possible. This means
values defined outside the request handler will be shared across requests:

```bash
curl https://std-rand.web.val.run # => {"randomValue":0.22669880732624748}
                                  # => {"randomValue":0.22669880732624748}
                                  # => {"randomValue":0.22669880732624748}
```

To fix this, you can move the call to `Math.random()` inside the request
handler.

```ts val
export default async function (req: Request): Promise<Response> {
  const randomValue = Math.random()
  return Response.json({ randomValue })
}
```

This will generate a new random value on every request, and return a new random
value, just like before.

```bash
curl https://std-rand.web.val.run # => {"randomValue":0.7862069462810053}
                                  # => {"randomValue":0.33484196890793516}
                                  # => {"randomValue":0.7272455873033288}
```

> ### Intentionally caching values for performance!

Reviewer: I might delete this section. It's not bad; maybe just distracting. Also happy to keep it in

Author: I see people commonly stick cacheable things in the request handler. I think this is a good thing to educate people on. 

ie: it is not the best if people just end up sticking all things within the request handler if there are some things they can leave outside of it. So I thought it might be helpful to show when it is not beneficial.
